# ETS Tracker

**ETS Tracker** is an interactive Python program that lets users explore Edmonton Transit Service (ETS) routes. Users can search for bus routes by selecting origin and destination stops, visualize the routes on a map, and see service disruptions as red markers. The program also allows loading, saving, and managing route, shape, and disruption data.

**Requires: Python 3**


## Folder Structure:
```
📦 ETS Tracker
├─ ETS Tracker.py         # main Python script
├─ graphics.py            # graphics library (John Zelle)
├─ edmonton.png           # map image
├─ .gitignore             # Ignore unnecessary files
└─ data                   # data folder
   ├─ routes.txt
   ├─ shapes.txt
   ├─ stops.txt
   ├─ trips.txt
   └─ traffic_disruptions.txt
```
©generated by [Project Tree Generator](https://woochanleee.github.io/project-tree-generator)

## Quick Start:

### Using Git / Terminal
1. Open your terminal and clone the repository:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:AbdinoorM1/ETS-Tracker.git
# or via HTTPS:
# git clone https://github.com/AbdinoorM1/ETS-Tracker.git
```
2. Navigate into the project folder:
```
cd "ETS-Tracker"
```
3. Run the program:
```
python3 "ETS Tracker.py"
```

## Manual Download:

1. Download the repository as a ZIP from GitHub.

2. Extract the ZIP and ensure the `data` folder is inside the `ETS Tracker` project folder.

3. Run `ETS Tracker.py` with Python 3.

## How to Run:

1. When prompted for a filename, press **Enter** to automatically load the default files from the `data` folder.  
2. Saving and loading pickled data works the same way, press **Enter**, and the code will respond with messages like `Data structures successfully written to data/etsdata.p.`  
3. Use the menu to:
   - Load route, shape, and disruption data (**must load all data first, before using the interactive map (option 9)**)
   - Print shape IDs or coordinates
   - Find the longest route shape
   - Save/load data
   - Launch the interactive map  
4. On the map, click **Search** or press **Enter** to find a route, and use **Clear Text** or **Clear Routes** to reset.  
5. Close the map window to return to the menu, then enter `0` to quit the program completely.
